---
title: Git Home
date: 2016-03-03 05:00:00 -0500
image:
  url: https://s3.amazonaws.com/bw.bideowego/images/git-home.png
categories: [Git, Bash]
tags: [bashrc, dot-files]
---


I've decided to share a concept that is already being used in the wild be various developers. The concept is version controlling your precious dot files.


We all have our shell configured just the way we liked it, with a bunch of aliases and included `.sh` files. Everyone uses some flavor of version managers with initialization code. Perhaps even a custom login and logout message.


All of this gets stuffed into a `.bashrc` file or `.bash_profile` file in your `~` directory. That's great for **this** computer, but what if you move to another machine where you want the same configuration? What if you change the configuration to something you like better and want to incorporate those changes onto your other machines?


This is where version controlling with Git shines! But wait? Won't creating a Git repository in my `~` folder mess with all of my nested Git repositories? ... **YES! It will!** So how can we have our cake and version control it too? ... Mmmm cake.

The answer is we enable/disable the git repositiory in our `~` folder when we want/don't want it.

How?

Well ideally we'd have a command that does that. None exists, so let's utilize our awesome `bash` skills to make one!

This code will create an aliased function we can call from the command line and pass an argument of `enable` and `disable`.

```bash
# somewhere in your ~/.bashrc or similar file

function githome {
  if [ $1 ]; then
    if [ $1 == 'disable' ]; then
      mv ~/.git ~/.git_
      mv ~/.gitignore ~/.gitignore_
    elif [ $1 == 'enable' ]; then
      mv ~/.git_ ~/.git
      mv ~/.gitignore_ ~/.gitignore
    else
      echo "Unrecognized argument value $1, please specify 'enable' or 'disable'"
    fi
  else
    echo "Please specify 'enable' or 'disable'"
  fi
}
alias githome='githome'
```

What does it do? When you call...

```shell
$ githome disable
```

...it renames your `~/.git` folder and `~/.gitignore` file to be appended with an underscore. Git now does not recognize your `~` directory as a repository. This allows all nested repos to function like normal.


Want to make changes and push your `~` Git repo? Call...

```shell
$ githome enable
```

...and now your `~` Git repo is enabled again by renaming `~/.git_` folder and `~/.gitignore_` to `~/.git` folder and `~/.gitignore`.



One last important trick to this is to ignore **EVERYTHING** in your `~` folder by default in your `~/.gitignore` file and then choose your included files with the prefixed `!`.

```bash
# ----------------------------------------
# Ignore Everything by Default
# ----------------------------------------

*

# ----------------------------------------
# Tracked Files and Directories
# ----------------------------------------

!/.bash/
!/.bash/*
!.bash_logout
!.bash_profile
!.bashrc

!.gemrc

!.git-completion.sh
!.git-prompt.sh
!.gitignore
!.gitignore_global

!README.md
```


Checkout my [dofiles on Github](https://github.com/BideoWego/dotfiles).




